# LPI-MFVGAE
Prediction of LncRNA-Protein Interactions Based on Multi-Feature Fusion and Co-Variational Graph Auto-Encoders
## Abstract
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) binding proteins not only play epigenetically regulated roles in cell proliferation and differentiation but implicate a range of diseases. However, revealing the interaction between lncRNA and protein (LPI) by means of in vivo and in vitro is always dearly bought. To this end, leveraging computational-based approaches to facilitate the identification of LPI has received focus and yielded promising results in this decade. Aims at utilizing features of heterogeneous properties that can be jointly modeled, we propose a LncRNA-Protein Interaction prediction framework based on Multi-Feature fusion and co-Variational Graph Auto-Encoders(LPI-MFVGAE). After obtaining the normalized sequential data, the similarity matrices or kernels, including lncRNA sequences, lncRNA expression profile, protein sequences, and gene ontology of proteins, should be firstly constructed by LPI-MFVGAE. Then we generate the fused matrices by stitching the corresponding kernels of lncRNAs or proteins. Next, it should be separately conducted on multi-feature matrices of the lncRNA and protein graphs with the original LPIs matrix. We aim to obtain the lncRNA-protein and protein-lncRNA score matrices about the lncRNA and protein Variational Graph Auto-Encoders (VGAEs), respectively. At last, the two VGAEs should be co-trained to integrate the two score matrices to produce the final prediction results. Extensive comparisons, case studies, and ablation experiments have shown the LPI-MFVGAE has achieved outperformed results among all kinds of scenarios.
